MEMS-Enabled On-Chip Computational Mid-Infrared Spectrometer
Using Silicon Photonics
Qifeng Qiao, Xinmiao Liu, Zhihao Ren, Bowei Dong, Ji Xia, Haoyang Sun, Chengkuo Lee,*
and Guangya Zhou*
Cite This: ACS Photonics 2022, 9, 2367−2377
Read Online
ACCESS
Metrics & More
Article Recommendations
*
sı
Supporting Information
ABSTRACT: On-chip spectrometers using silicon photonics offer a compact, energy-efficient, and cost-effective solution to
biochemical spectroscopy and hyperspectral imaging in integrated and portable application scenarios. The mid-infrared (MIR)
spectral band is critical to spectroscopic sensing. However, the existing on-chip spectrometer approaches are limited in the MIR.
Here, we present an on-chip computational spectrometer in MIR (3.7−4.05 μm) using an MEMS-enabled silicon photonic
integrated device, which is realized via the time-domain modulation of reconfigurable waveguide couplers. The electrostatically
actuated on-chip spectrometer intrinsically features low power consumption and single-pixel detection and offers multiplexing
advantages, potentially leading to a high signal-to-noise ratio. We achieve laser spectrum reconstruction across a large bandwidth
(350 nm) experimentally. Furthermore, based on a linear superposition assumption, we achieve the polychromatic light
reconstruction of narrow spectral features (3 nm resolution) and a broad absorption spectrum of nitrous oxide gas using a
regularized regression method.
KEYWORDS: MIR photonics, photonic integrated circuit, reconfigurable photonics, optical MEMS, on-chip spectrometer
■INTRODUCTION
Optical spectrometers are among the most widely used types
of experimental instruments for biochemical sensing and
material analysis.1 In the past decades, there has been a
rapid increase in the use of spectrometer systems in many
academic and industrial areas, including precision agriculture,
environmental monitoring, marine science, and food industry.2
In these application scenarios, the spectroscopy analysis is
often expected to be instantaneous on the site, which leads to
the development of miniaturized optical spectrometers.3−7
Among them, silicon photonics is one of the most promising
technologies. Leveraging the advantages of CMOS compati-
bility and integration, the chip-scale spectrometers based on
photonic integrated circuits (PIC) can be compact and of low
cost.8,9
To date, most on-chip spectrometers based on PICs rely on
planar dispersive gratings,10−14 narrowband filters,15,16 and
Fourier transform (FT) interferometers.17−21 Besides, some
approaches are using computational reconstruction.22,23 On-
chip spectrometers based on dispersive elements and
narrowband filters can provide a high resolution by spectral
channel division. However, signal-to-noise (SNR) could be a
problem for these devices since light is split into many spectral
channels. What is more, the multichannel architecture often
requires a corresponding detector array, which increases the
footprint, cost, and complexity of the PICs. Compared to these
systems, FT spectrometers have some inherent advantages,
known as the multiplexing advantage (Fellgett’s advantage)
and high optical throughput (Jacquinot’s advantage). Thus, it
brings a high SNR to FT spectral analysis. With reconfigurable
components in PIC circuits, an on-chip FT spectrometer can
be implemented with a single-pixel detector and digitalized
control. Combining the thermo-optic tuning and Mach−
Received:
March 8, 2022
Published: June 23, 2022
Article
pubs.acs.org/journal/apchd5
© 2022 American Chemical Society
2367
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381
ACS Photonics 2022, 9, 2367−2377
Downloaded via NATL UNIV OF SINGAPORE on August 13, 2022 at 04:45:04 (UTC).
See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles.


Zehnder interferometer (MZI) waveguide architecture,
researchers have demonstrated on-chip FT spectrometers
working around 1550 nm wavelength with good performances
(resolution below nanometer and bandwidth of tens of
nanometers).17,19,21
However, despite the work demonstrated in the near-
infrared wavelength range, investigations on on-chip spec-
trometers might not be adequate in the MIR wavelength range
(typically defined as 2−20 μm).24−28 The MIR range contains
strong characteristic absorption bands of many biochemical
molecules. The so-called fingerprint region is of great interest
to spectroscopy sensing.29,30 The MIR on-chip spectrometer
can play an important role in lab-on-a-chip applications.31
Prior work in MIR has mainly demonstrated the FT
spectrometer based on discrete MZIs.24−27 The spatial
heterodyne spectrometer design relies on the number of
discrete MZIs to increase its spectral resolution, which
demands a high-cost detector array and could result in an
excessive footprint. To further develop on-chip applications in
MIR, reconfigurable MIR photonic devices are desired to
empower on-chip optical functionalities. Recent years have
seen growing interest in reconfiguration in MIR PICs.32 The
reconfiguration mechanisms, including mechanical motion,33
free carrier injection,34 thermo-optic tuning,35 and so forth,
have been demonstrated in the MIR region. Among these
approaches,32 optical MEMS on a silicon-on-insulator (SOI)
platform could be an auspicious choice for the MIR
reconfigurable photonics. With the removal of the buried
oxide (BOX) layer, mechanical motion of the on-chip photonic
waveguide can be enabled. Meanwhile, the optical loss induced
by BOX in the MIR region can be eliminated, thus sustaining
the competitiveness and cost-effectiveness of SOI technology.
Additionally, reconfiguration using electrostatic actuation
could offer an energy-efficient, low-loss, and effective approach
to the MIR on-chip optical systems.36 Thus, the MEMS-
enabled silicon PIC device could be a promising solution to
the high-performance on-chip spectrometer in the MIR.
In this paper, we experimentally demonstrate an MIR on-
chip silicon MEMS-enabled computational spectrometer (Si-
McS) working around a wavelength of 4 μm, which is
accomplished using a pair of simple MEMS tunable waveguide
couplers on an SOI platform. The proposed Si-McS concept
brings inherent FT advantages to the on-chip spectroscopy,
ensuring a high SNR and requiring a single-pixel photodetector
only. Moreover, the presented MEMS-reconfigurable approach
shows superior performance for on-chip reconfiguration
photonics in the MIR SOI platform (see Supporting
Information Note 8). It breaks SOI’s limitation in the MIR
region and potentially facilitates chip-level integration by fully
leveraging the infrastructures built on SOI platforms. These
contribute to the high performance and compactness of the
demonstrated Si-McS in MIR (see Supporting Information
Note 8). The effective tuning of the waveguide couplers can be
realized using electrostatic actuation in our 3D heterogeneous
Figure 1. Overview of the Si-McS architecture. (a) Schematic of the MIR spectroscopy system using the Si-McS chip. MIR light goes through the
gas cell first. Then, the absorbed light is coupled into the Si-McS chip for analysis. Through computational reconstruction using the measured
interferogram at the detector, the target spectrum can be reconstructed. (b) Zoom-in view of the on-chip device under electrostatic actuation where
the MEMS cantilever is actuated upward. (c) Cross-section view denoting the electrical potential applied and mechanical motion of the on-chip
device during operation. (d) Optical mode profiles (Hy) of the waveguide coupler.
ACS Photonics
pubs.acs.org/journal/apchd5
Article
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381
ACS Photonics 2022, 9, 2367−2377
2368


integrated device.33,37 The spectra can be acquired via the
time-domain actuation of the MEMS tunable waveguide
couplers. We implement machine learning-regularized regres-
sion methods to computationally reconstruct the spectra. We
experimentally demonstrate the sparse spectrum reconstruc-
tion of laser peaks on every 1 nm over a 350 nm bandwidth
(3.7−4.05 μm). Based on a linear superposition assumption on
detector response, we carry out polychromatic spectrum
reconstruction using laser measurement results. Double-
wavelength reconstruction results show a 3 nm resolution of
the proposed Si-McS device. Moreover, a gas cell inflated by
nitrous oxide (N2O) gas is placed into the experimental setup
to examine the Si-McS’s capability for absorption spectrum
reconstruction. The experimental results show that the spectral
absorption characteristic of N2O can be well reconstructed and
recognized. The proposed Si-McS features easy integration, a
high SNR ratio, and a compact footprint (4.5 mm × 0.6 mm).
It could become an important building block for future
spectroscopic sensing in the MIR region. The schematic of the
demonstrated spectroscopy system is shown in Figure 1a.
■RESULTS
Si-McS Architecture. The concept of the Si-McS is
analogous to Fourier transform infrared spectrometer (FTIR),
which relies on the modulation of the optical path difference
(OPD). In the proposed concept, OPD modulation is obtained
by active time-domain modulation of the coupling strength
between photonic waveguides. The suspended silicon wave-
guide is designed to be a single mode with TE polarization. It
is known that the coupling between a pair of waveguides can
be understood as the interference between the formed two
supermodes in the waveguide coupler, namely, symmetric
mode (SM0) and asymmetric mode (SM1). Considering the
effective index difference between SM0 and SM1 (Δn(λ) =
n1(λ) −n2(λ)), the interference can be observed at the output
through and drop ports after these two modes propagate
through a given coupling length. Thus, interferograms can be
generated at either output port by time-domain tuning of the
coupling strength of a waveguide coupler with a certain
coupling length, which is similar to the modulation of OPD. In
our prior work,18 we briefly elaborate on the working principle
of a discrete design with simulation results. Here, we introduce
our architecture on an MIR silicon photonics platform with a
continuous tuning of a fixed-length waveguide coupler. In the
aspect of photonics design, suspended waveguide with
subwavelength grating (SWG) claddings on the SOI platform
is adopted by considering easy integration between the MEMS
actuator and MIR photonic waveguide (see Figure 1b insets).
The waveguide coupler is formed by two silicon strip
waveguides with single-side SWG claddings. Waveguide
claddings are converted from the single side to the double
side to define the movable and stationary regions, as shown in
Figure 1b. In the aspect of MEMS design, as shown
schematically in Figure 1c, the MEMS cantilever can be
electrostatically actuated upward using our 3D heterogeneous
integration method.33 In such an architecture, coupling
strength between these two photonic waveguides can be
reconfigurable through adjusting the vertical gap. From our
simulation results (Figure 1d), adjusting the vertical gap offers
a convenient way for tuning the effective index difference
Δn(λ). Details of the waveguide study can be found in
Supporting Information Note 1. We can choose either the
through port or drop port of the waveguide coupler as the
output and we can actively adjust the vertical gap to measure
the interferogram at the output, thus enabling the acquisition
of the light spectrum. The propagation loss and bending loss of
the suspended silicon waveguide with SWG claddings are
measured to be −2.9 dB/cm and −0.076 dB each (Supporting
Information Note 1). The response time of the MEMS
cantilever actuator is estimated to be 11.5 μs (Supporting
Information Note 3). The device footprint is 4.5 mm × 0.6
mm, which includes a pair of reconfigurable photonic
waveguide couplers.
For a directional coupler with a certain coupling length L,
the output power from the through and drop ports can be
described as38
=
P
L
B
L
n
( , )
( )cos
through
2 i
k
jjj
y
{
zzz
(1)
=
P
L
B
L
n
( , )
( )sin
drop
2 i
k
jjj
y
{
zzz
(2)
where Pthrough and Pdrop are the output light power at the
corresponding ports, B is the spectrum of input light, λ is the
light wavelength, and Δn is the effective index difference
between SM0 and SM1. It is well-known that the interferogram
of a Michelson interferometer in a traditional FTIR can be
given as18
=
+
=
I
x
B
x
B
x
( , )
0.5 ( ) 1
cos 2
( )cos
D
2
i
k
jjjj
i
k
jjj
y
{
zzz
y
{
zzzz
i
k
jjj
y
{
zzz
(3)
where x is the OPD and ID is the output power of the
interferometer. From eqs 1−3, it can be found that the
analogous OPD offered by the Si-McS can be understood as x
= LΔn. More specifically, in the operation of the Si-McS, we
can use a time-domain bias voltage (Vbias) signal on the MEMS
actuator to adjust the vertical coupling gap (h) between the
waveguides, thus realizing the time-domain modulation of Δn
step by step. To further clarify the intrinsic FT mechanism of
the proposed device with the fact that Δn is a function of both
h and λ taken into consideration, Δn(λ,h) is approximated by a
polynomial function
=
+
+
+
+
n
h
f
f
h
a
a
b
b h
b h
b h
( , )
( ) ( )
(
)(
)
1
2
1
2
1
2
3
2
4
3
(4)
which is validated using numerical calculations (see Supporting
Information Note 2). Given the device geometry, the
polynomial approximation can be fitted with a 99.5% R-
squared value.
Furthermore, combining eqs 1 and 4, the output power of
the through port in the proposed spectrometer can be given as
=
·
=
·
=
P
x
u
B u
L
n
h
B u
L f
f
h
B u
ux
(
, )
( ) cos
( , )
( ) cos
( ) ( )
( ) cos (
)
h
h
through
2
2
1
2
2
i
k
jjjj
y
{
zzzz
i
k
jjjjj
y
{
zzzzz
(5)
where the effective wavenumber and OPD are defined as u =
f1(λ)/λ = (a1 + a2λ)/λ and xh = L·f 2(h), respectively.
Therefore, B(u) can be achieved by performing an FFT of
the interferogram Pthrough. With λ = a1/(u −a2), the spectrum
B(λ) can be obtained by mapping the effective wavenumber u
to the wavelength λ. The eqs 4 and 5 highlight the conceptual
ACS Photonics
pubs.acs.org/journal/apchd5
Article
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381
ACS Photonics 2022, 9, 2367−2377
2369


working mechanism of the Si-McS using an MEMS-tunable
directional coupler. In our demonstrations, considering the fact
that functions f1 and f 2 are difficult to be precisely determined
experimentally, we used a regularized regression model for
computational spectrum reconstruction instead.
Experimental Device. We experimentally validated the Si-
McS concept in the MIR region using our 3D assembled
photonic MEMS device. The experimental device consists of a
glass chip (500 μm thick) on top and an SOI MEMS PIC chip
(500 nm-thick device layer and 2 μm-thick BOX) at the
bottom. The optical waveguides are fabricated on an SOI wafer
using a foundry-compatible silicon photonics process.
The gold-patterned glass chip is aligned and bonded on the
SOI chip via aluminum (Al) solders by flip-chip bonding,
providing the top electrode for electrostatic actuation. This 3D
integration approach offers a large tunable range for the
MEMS cantilevers, thus enabling the effective tuning of the
waveguide coupler.33 As shown in Figure 2b, the Al solders
also work as the electrical interconnect between the top and
bottom chips. With insulation trenches on the SOI chip, we
can apply bias voltage to the top electrode on the glass chip via
the electrical input on the SOI chip, which facilitates the Si-
McS operation. The optical input and output are achieved via
the fiber-to-chip grating couplers. Here, we choose a narrow
coupling gap of 200 nm for the waveguide coupler (Figure 2a),
which depends on our current nanofabrication capabilities. To
validate the concept, we choose a long coupling length of 7680
μm, which is offered by two cascaded waveguide couplers
(shown in Figure 2c,d). A longer coupling length could lead to
a finer spectrometer resolution. Here, we estimate the
theoretical resolution based on the Rayleigh criterion,
Supporting Information Note 4), and choose a coupling
length of 7680 μm which is promising for our experimental
demonstration. Besides, the coupling length is chosen to be the
integral multiple of the SWG period to well integrate the
waveguide design. The two MEMS cantilevers are electrically
grounded and actuated simultaneously by a top electrode
covering both of them (Figure 2b). We use the design of two
MEMS cantilevers here to achieve design compactness.
Considering an MEMS cantilever length of 85 μm and an
initial air gap of 12 μm, the pull-in voltage of the electrostatic
actuation can be estimated to be 140 V.39
Before we proceed to the experimental validation of the Si-
McS, we carry out a characterization process to test the
Figure 2. (a) SEM image of the waveguide coupling region. (b) A-A′ section view of the 3D assembled device. (c) SEM image of the movable
waveguide coupler. (d) Optical microscopy image of the MEMS actuation region of the device.
Figure 3. (a) Experimental setup for the MIR reconfigurable photonics device characterization. (b) Calibrated measurement matrix D of the on-
chip spectrometer. The wavelength range is swept in a 1 nm high resolution, and 71 steps of DC bias voltage are gradually applied to the MEMS
actuator.
ACS Photonics
pubs.acs.org/journal/apchd5
Article
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381
ACS Photonics 2022, 9, 2367−2377
2370


electrostatic actuation voltage using a photonic switch design
on the same chip (see Supporting Information Note 3). This
could help us understand the decouple condition of the
reconfigurable waveguide coupler and the pull-in voltage of the
MEMS cantilever. The experimental setup for this device
characterization is depicted in Figure 3a. An MIR tunable laser
is used as the single-wavelength light source. The optical
input/output to the Si-McS is achieved using fiber-to-chip
grating couplers. Depending on the transmission bandwidth of
the grating coupler, we carry out the optical testing in the
wavelength range between 3.7 and 4.05 μm. From the voltage
testing results in Supporting Information Note 3, it can be
found that the resonance frequency of the MEMS actuator is
87 kHz (roughly corresponds to an 11.5 μs device response
time) and 80 V bias voltage is sufficient to actuate the
waveguide coupler from a fully coupled to a decoupled
condition. To simplify the experimental implementation and
compensate for the fabrication imperfections of the on-chip
device, we adopt a computational scheme to reconstruct the
spectrum with the use of the machine learning regression
method. We choose a time-sequenced bias voltage from 0 to
80 V to acquire the interferogram. The bias voltage sequence is
applied by a 2 V interval between 0 and 20 V gradually
followed by a 1 V interval from 20 to 80 V, which is a total of
71-step bias voltage. A larger voltage increase is chosen at
lower bias because the optical response is relatively small below
20 V bias voltage (see the actuation calibration results in
Supporting Information Note 3).
Next, we work on the demonstration of the Si-McS spectrum
reconstruction using the depicted setup (Figure 3a). At the
first step, we work on the calibration of the computational
reconstructive Si-McS. The output intensities from the drop
port of the Si-McS are collected with a step-by-step increase of
bias voltage (71 steps) applied at each wavelength between 3.7
and 4.05 μm with an increase of 1 nm. These calibration
intensity data form matrix A (m × n), indicating the spectral
response of the device in the current testing system. Each
column of A represents specific intensity outputs of the Si-McS
generated at the corresponding light wavelength and includes
71 optical intensity points (m = 71) under the time-domain
MEMS actuation. A total of 351 columns correspond to the
swept wavelength points (n = 351) by the MIR tunable laser.
In the experimental testing setup, the testing system has a
wavelength-dependent feature caused by the tunable laser
output, grating coupler efficiency, and detector spectral
response. The optical transmission through a straight wave-
guide on the same chip, which comprises the same wavelength-
dependent testing system feature, is measured and regarded as
the reference input light intensity. The laser swept spectrum
passing through the straight waveguide is recorded as a vector
G = [g1, g2, ..., gn]T with 351 elements. Thus, the calibrated
measurement matrix D (m × n) of the on-chip spectrometer
can be given as
=
·
A
g
g
D
diag
1 , ..., 1
n
1
i
k
jjjjjj
y
{
zzzzzz
(6)
where diag represents the diagonal matrix form. Once the
measurement matrix D is calibrated, it remains fixed if the
system is unchanged and can be used to retrieve the light
spectrum directly. For an arbitrary incident light spectrum S (a
column vector with 351 elements), the interferogram I
measured by the detector is
=
·
I
D S
(7)
Figure 4. Single-wavelength spectrum reconstruction. (a) Reconstructed laser lines (gray lines) showing the original solutions of S by the elastic-
net method (training sets in blue and reference intensity in orange). (b) Measured interferograms at several different laser wavelengths. (c)
Corresponding reconstructed spectra from the interferograms shown in (b).
ACS Photonics
pubs.acs.org/journal/apchd5
Article
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381
ACS Photonics 2022, 9, 2367−2377
2371


where I is a column vector with 71 elements. Each element
represents the optical output intensity at a certain bias voltage.
As the calibrated measurement matrix D used in our system is
in a size of 71 × 351 (shown in Figure 3b), we use the
regularized regression techniques to solve the underdeter-
mined equation to determine the incident spectrum S. To
properly solve the sparsity signal and account for system
robustness, we choose the regularized regression model
including both L1-norm and L2-norm, namely, the elastic-net.
It solves the regularized regression problem
{
+
+
}
I
DS
S
S
minS
2
2
1
1
2
2
2
(8)
where two regularized weights (hyperparameter α1 and α2) are
applied to the L1-norm and L2-norm of the solution (S vector),
respectively. In this study, we adopt scikit-learn to implement it
in Python.40
Single-Wavelength Reconstruction. To achieve appro-
priate hyperparameters for our Si-McS characteristics, we
implement a machine learning approach for grid search of α1.
For reconstruction of single-wavelength spectra, we manually
adjust the hyperparameter α2 to zero by considering the
signal’s extreme sparsity. For grid search of the hyperparameter
α1, we measure the interferograms at 34 wavelengths using
time-domain MEMS actuation. These wavelengths are evenly
chosen across the whole operation wavelength band (Figure
4a). These 34 measured interferograms form the training sets Ij
(j = 1, 2, ... 34), where each I is a column vector with 71
elements. By solving the regularized problem, we can obtain
the corresponding incident spectrum Sj. As the tunable MIR
laser has a linewidth of 0.2 nm, we take the reference incident
laser spectrum as a column vector Ŝj with high sparsity that has
only one nonzero intensity value taken from the measurement
G = [g1, g2, ..., gn]T. For example, given a laser input from the
ith wavelength λi, only Ŝj(i) equals G(i) and all the other
elements in Ŝj are zero. We carry out the grid search in the 34
training sets to choose α1 that minimizes the total mean
squared error (MSE) between the solution Sj and Ŝj. The total
MSE is calculated by
[
]
=
=
n
i
i
S
S
1
( )
( )
j
i
n
j
j
1
34
1
2
l
m
oo
n
oo
|
}
ooo
~
oo
(9)
From the grid search in the training set, the optimal α1 is
determined to be 3.79 × 10−4. The determined hyper-
parameter α1 represents an intrinsic characteristic of the on-
chip Si-McS. Thus, it is consistently applied to the following
spectrum reconstruction. Next, we use the hyperparameters
(α1 = 3.79 × 10−4 and α2 = 0) to predict the incident laser
wavelength across the spectral range (3.7−4.05 μm) (Figure
4a). An interferogram I is collected at each selected
wavelength, and it is used to solve the regularized problem
for the incident spectrum S. The remaining 317 recorded
interferograms form the test sets with their reconstructed laser
spectra are presented in gray where the 34 training sets are
denoted in blue. The reference intensity G is plotted as a
continuous line in orange. It is noted that the intensity dip
around a wavelength of 3.8 μm is caused by the nonuniform
MIR laser output. A few reconstructed laser spectra that do not
belong to the training sets are chosen to further demonstrate
the high-performance reconstruction (Figure 4c), and their
corresponding interferograms are shown in Figure 4b. The
regression model training and prediction results are
summarized in Table 1. The low level of MSE (10−4) in the
testing sets proves that the adopted machine learning
regression method is valid to be used on the Si-McS
spectrometer for sparse signal reconstruction. Over the
whole working wavelength range (350 nm bandwidth), the
laser wavelengths can be precisely reconstructed with ±1 nm
accuracy.
Double-Wavelength Reconstruction. Due to the lack of
polychromatic MIR light sources in our laboratory, we use the
following scheme to emulate the experimental polychromatic
interferograms using a tunable laser source. Assuming a
polychromatic light source with a known spectrum containing
a total of m number of wavelength components, the tunable
laser is tuned to each wavelength component with its intensity
properly set, and its interferogram Ih (h = 1 to m) from the Si-
McS is recorded. Assuming that the detector response is
proportional to the linear superposition of all intensities at
those wavelength components at the detector, the experimental
interferogram (Ip) by a polychromatic input containing m
wavelength components can be given as a summation of all Ih
recorded
=
=
I
I
h
m
h
p
1
(10)
Under this scheme, we reconstruct the polychromatic
spectrum using the experimental interferogram Ip. Further
discussion on the validation of the linear superposition
assumption can be found in Supporting Information Note 5.
Two tunable laser sources working in the near-infrared
wavelength range are adopted in the testing of a waveguide
coupler device. The measured output optical intensity by
simultaneously injecting two wavelengths equals approximately
to the summation of the individually measured optical
intensities when each wavelength is injected alone. This is
valid during our mulitesting with different combinations of
wavelengths and input powers. It could be ideal to use an
additional MIR laser or a broadband MIR light source to carry
out the experiments. However, with the lack of an extra MIR
laser or a commercially available MIR broadband light source
in the laboratory, we evaluate the proposed Si-McS perform-
ance under the well-validated linear superposition assumption
and a single tunable MIR laser.
We carry out the spectrum reconstruction on the
polychromatic input consisting of two laser lines to determine
the spectral resolution of the Si-McS under the adopted
computational scheme. In the first step, we obtain the
experimental interferogram Ip. Given the reconstruction for
Δλ = 2 nm as an example, we first measure the interferograms
I1 (71 × 1) and I2 (71 × 1) at wavelengths of 3.900 and 3.902
μm, respectively. The experimental interferogram Ip generated
by a polychromatic light source containing these two
wavelengths (3.900 and 3.902 μm) is given as Ip = I1 + I2.
Next, we use Ip and the same calibrated measurement matrix
(D) to solve the regularized regression problem to specify the
Table 1. Model Fitting and Prediction Results for Laser
Lines Using the Elastic-Net Method (α2 = 0)
number of
laser lines
α1
total MSE
average MSE
training
sets
34
3.79 × 10−4
3.87 × 10−3
1.29 × 10−4
testing
sets
317
3.79 × 10−4
4.82 × 10−2
1.52 × 10−4
ACS Photonics
pubs.acs.org/journal/apchd5
Article
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381
ACS Photonics 2022, 9, 2367−2377
2372


polychromatic light spectrum Sp. Considering the sparsity of
the polychromatic input, we adopt the elastic-net method and
the same hyperparameters (α1 = 3.79 × 10−4 and α2 = 0) as
those used in the previous section to solve the problem.
It can be found that the wavelength and intensity features of
the spectra can be well reconstructed (Figure 5a). The
reference intensity shown in Figure 5 is taken from the
measurement intensity vector G. The spectral resolution of the
Si-McS is determined by the minimum resolvable spacing
between the two laser lines. In our experiments, a 2 nm
resolution can be barely obtained (Figure 5b) and a 3 nm
resolution is achieved (Figure 5c), which exceeds the Rayleigh
criterion (Supporting Information Note 4). Besides, we analyze
the robustness of the spectrum reconstruction using the
proposed algorithm with the same hyperparameter (α1 = 3.79
× 10−4 and α2 = 0). The main factor causing the degradation
of the reconstruction performance could be the measurement
errors from the MEMS-enabled PIC device. Here, we analyze
the relative errors of two acquired interferograms at the same
wavelength (see Supporting Information Note 6). Among 300
sets of measurement data, the relative errors extracted range
from 1.2 to 3.1% with an average of 2.4%. Next, we numerically
apply increasing noise levels to the experimental interferograms
and investigate the reconstruction performances. It can be
found that the spectra can be well retrieved up to a maximum
of 4% relative error in the experimental interferograms. The
details of the investigation can be found in Supporting
Information Note 6. These results show the accuracy and
repeatability of our MEMS-enabled device for the data
acquisition and the robustness of spectrum reconstruction
using the proposed computational technique.
Broad Absorption Spectrum Reconstruction. The MIR
region is important for absorption spectroscopy. Here, we use
the Si-McS to demonstrate the broad spectrum reconstruction
for N2O gas absorption spectroscopy. N2O gas is a potent
greenhouse gas that destructs the stratospheric ozone.41 The
miniaturized spectroscopic instrumentations could contribute
to the monitoring of N2O emissions. A customized gas cell (25
cm optical length) is inserted into the current testing setup
between the half-wave plate and ZnSe lens for the investigation
of gas spectroscopy (Supporting Information Note 7). Thus, it
is necessary to recalibrate the measurement matrix D in the
modified testing setup with the gas cell inserted.
Figure 5. Double-wavelength spectrum reconstruction. (a) Reconstructed and reference polychromatic spectra comprising double laser lines with
different wavelength spacings (solved using the elastic-net method with the same hyperparameters used for Figure 4). (b) Zoom-in view of the
spectra with 2 nm spacing. (c) Zoom-in view of the spectrum with 3 nm spacing. Two laser lines are well-distinguished.
ACS Photonics
pubs.acs.org/journal/apchd5
Article
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381
ACS Photonics 2022, 9, 2367−2377
2373


We use the gas cell filled with ambient air for testing system
calibration. The same time-sequenced bias voltage with 71
steps is adopted. First, we sweep the tunable laser passing
through the straight waveguide with a step of 4 nm from 3.82
to 4.02 μm. The measured results G′ are regarded as the
reference input light intensity passing through the air gas cell.
Second, we retrieve the spectral response matrix A′. Thus, we
can achieve the calibrated measurement matrix D′ under the
current gas spectroscopy testing system using eq 6. Similarly,
we still adopt the elastic-net method (hyperparameter α1 =
3.79 × 10−4) to implement the computational reconstruction.
Considering the target broadband signal, we put a relatively
large weight on the α2 and adjust the hyperparameter α2 =
99α1 to increase the model robustness.
Next, we work on the reconstruction of light spectra passing
through the air gas cell (Sair). Again, based on the linear
superposition response of the Si-McS, the experimental
interferogram Iair for a polychromatic input comprising 51
wavelength elements is obtained by a summation of all the
interferograms measured at each wavelength. The measured
interferograms can be found in Supporting Information Note
7. The calibrated measurement matrix D′ and experimental
interferogram Iair are used to solve the regularized problem for
the spectrum Sair. The reconstructed light spectrum passing
through the air gas cell is shown in Figure 6a.
Next, we inflate the gas cell with N2O gas for gas
spectroscopy demonstration. We collect the experimental
interferogram IN
d2O by a polychromatic input comprising the
51 wavelength elements based on the linear superposition
assumption. Measurement results of the interferograms on
each wavelength can be found in Supporting Information Note
7. Thus, we solve the regularized regression problem with the
calibrated measurement matrix D′ and experimental interfero-
gram IN
d2O. The solution SN
d2O representing the reconstructed
absorption spectrum of the N2O gas cell is shown in Figure 6b.
For comparison, we also send the laser through the N2O gas
cell and a straight waveguide and sweep its wavelength. The
laser intensity at each wavelength is recorded and denoted as
G′N
d2O, which serves as the reference absorption spectrum of
the N2O gas cell. From the absorbance spectrum (Figure 6c), it
can be found that the spectral features of the N2O gas can be
well recognized. The inset in Figure 6c briefly depicts the
modified testing system, and details can be found in
Supporting Information Note 7.
■DISCUSSION
Considering the rapid progress in the development of MIR
silicon photonics, the outstanding performance of the Si-McS
can be expected. First, a superior spectral resolution of the Si-
McS device can be pursued using the advanced silicon
photonics foundry process. The extension of the waveguide
coupler length with low-loss waveguides and the reduction of
the waveguide coupling gap can lead to a finer spectral
resolution based on the proposed Si-McS concept (Supporting
Information Note 4). Leveraging on the advanced nano-
fabrication foundry process, the narrowing coupling gap also
contributes to the reduction of the device footprint. Second,
the operation bandwidth of the Si-McS device can be further
explored. The demonstrated bandwidth of 350 nm is limited
by the available transmission bandwidth of the fiber-to-chip
grating coupler. The further enhanced bandwidth might be
achieved using fiber-to-chip edge couplers. Third, the adopted
electrostatic MEMS actuation guarantees an extremely low
energy consumption operation of the Si-McS. With the
improvement of the 3D MEMS integration approach, the
bonding gap between the chips can be further reduced, thus
potentially lowering the operating bias voltage.
The demonstrated Si-McS using MEMS-enabled silicon
photonics exhibits promising capability of the reconfigurable
MIR photonic devices. The MEMS approach for MIR PIC
reconfiguration extends the usage of SOI wafer to a longer
wavelength in a low-loss, energy-efficient, and effective way,
Figure 6. Broadband absorption spectrum reconstruction. (a) Spectrum reconstruction for air. (b) Spectrum reconstruction for N2O gas. (c)
Calculated absorbance showing the spectral absorption features of the detected N2O gas.
ACS Photonics
pubs.acs.org/journal/apchd5
Article
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381
ACS Photonics 2022, 9, 2367−2377
2374


which may enable multicomponent MIR spectroscopic sensing
on a single chip.
To conclude, we experimentally demonstrate an on-chip-
integrated spectrometer using a reconfigurable MIR silicon
photonic device. The proposed Si-McS concept is discussed,
which is intrinsically analogous to a Michelson interferometer
and FTIR. The experimental device consists of a pair of MEMS
reconfigurable silicon waveguide couplers operated at MIR
wavelengths. The CMOS-compatible fabrication process and
single-detector scheme potentially ensure low-cost manufactur-
ing. In our experiments, a highly accurate (1 nm accuracy)
single-wavelength spectrum reconstruction over a large
bandwidth (350 nm) is experimentally achieved. Moreover,
based on a linear response assumption of the detector, we carry
out the spectrum reconstruction for polychromatic light. The
spectral resolution of the demonstrated Si-McS is determined
to be 3 nm by the double wavelength reconstruction results.
The absorption spectrum of N2O gas in the Si-McS operation
window is investigated, and the spectral absorption feature of
the gas is well recognized. Our study proposes a valid approach
to achieve high-performance and compact MIR spectrometry
on a single chip (Supporting Information Note 8). Considering
the effectiveness of the MEMS reconfiguration mechanism, this
concept can be applied to other wavelength bands and can also
be extended to other photonics platforms besides silicon. The
Si-McS can be an important building block for spectroscopy-
on-a-chip applications, contributing to the miniaturized,
robust, and low-cost portable spectroscopic sensors.
■METHODS
Device Fabrication. The proposed MIR Si-McS is
fabricated using an industry-compatible process. It consists of
two chips. The glass chip (0.8 × 0.8 cm2) is chosen for the top
electrodes because of its insulation property. The bottom chip
is a 1.5 × 1.5 cm2 SOI chip. First, metal patterns, including the
electrodes, bonding pads, and markers, are fabricated on the
glass chip using standard optical lithography (LaserWriter,
LW405b; photoresist: AZ1512) followed by metal deposition
of 5 nm-thick Ti and 50 nm-thick Au (AJA Ebeam Evaporator)
and the liftoff process (rinsing samples in 65 °C acetone).
Second, we work on the fabrication of the bottom chip.
Photonic devices, MEMS structures, and markers are
fabricated on an SOI chip, using standard electron-beam
lithography (JOEL, JBX-6300FS; E-beam resist: ZEP 520A)
followed by deep reactive-ion etching (DRIE, Oxford
Plasmalab 100 ICP) and e-beam resist removal. Next, metal
patterns, including electrodes and bonding pads, are fabricated
on the bottom SOI chip using standard optical lithography
(LaserWriter, LW405b; photoresist: AZ1512) followed by
metal deposition of 5 nm-thick Cr and 50 nm-thick Au (Lesker
NANO 36 thermal evaporator) and the liftoff process (rinsing
samples in 65 °C acetone). Then, we use the diluted hydrogen
fluoride (DHF) for the release of MEMS structures. The 49%
HF liquid is diluted with DI water in the ratio of 1−4. After 1.5
h of DHF release, the SOI chip is rinsed with acetone for 0.5 h
and then dried using a critical point dryer (Leica EM
CPD300). Next, we use the wire bonder (F&K Delvotec
5330) to place the aluminum solders on the bonding pads on
both chips. Finally, these two chips are aligned and bonded
together using the flip-chip bonder (FINEPLACER sigma) by
thermal compression.
Experimental Setup. We use a quantum cascaded laser
(Daylight, MIRcat-1200) covering the wavelength range from
3650 nm to 4150 nm. An optical chopper (Stanford Research
SR540) is placed at the laser output. A half-wave plate
(Thorlabs WPLQ05M-4000) is placed right after the chopper
to control the polarization. The light is focused on a ZrF4 fiber
end using a ZnSe lens to couple the MIR light from the tunable
laser into the MIR fiber. The light is then coupled in and out of
the PIC chip through two on-chip grating couplers. Both fiber
ends are mounted on mechanical precision positioners with a
10° tilting from the vertical direction. An optical microscope is
used to facilitate the fiber-to-chip alignment. Optical signals
from the chip are detected with an MIR photodetector
(Thorlabs PDA20H). The photodetector is connected to a
lock-in amplifier (Stanford Research SR830) as the input
signal. Meanwhile, the optical chopper is also connected to the
lock-in amplifier as the reference signal to reduce the
measurement noise. The Si-McS chip is electrically connected
to a customized PCB via wire bonding. We use a semi-
conductor characterization system (Keithley 4200-SCS) for
bias voltage supply to implement the time-domain modulation
of OPD.
■ASSOCIATED CONTENT
*
sı Supporting Information
The Supporting Information is available free of charge at
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381.
Waveguide design parameters and loss study; simulation
details; experimental voltage calibration for the electro-
static actuation; estimation of the theoretical perform-
ance; validation of the linear superposition assumption;
spectrum reconstruction robustness to measurement
noise; testing setup and measured results for gas
absorption spectroscopy; and comparison tables (PDF)
■AUTHOR INFORMATION
Corresponding Authors
Chengkuo Lee −Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, National University of Singapore, Singapore
117583, Singapore; Center for Intelligent Sensors and MEMS
(CISM), National University of Singapore, Singapore
117608, Singapore;
orcid.org/0000-0002-8886-3649;
Email: elelc@nus.edu.sg
Guangya Zhou −Department of Mechanical Engineering,
National University of Singapore, Singapore 117575,
Singapore; Center for Intelligent Sensors and MEMS
(CISM), National University of Singapore, Singapore
117608, Singapore;
orcid.org/0000-0003-2651-2656;
Email: mpezgy@nus.edu.sg
Authors
Qifeng Qiao −Department of Mechanical Engineering,
National University of Singapore, Singapore 117575,
Singapore; Center for Intelligent Sensors and MEMS
(CISM), National University of Singapore, Singapore
117608, Singapore
Xinmiao Liu −Department of Mechanical Engineering,
National University of Singapore, Singapore 117575,
Singapore; Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, National University of Singapore, Singapore
117583, Singapore; Center for Intelligent Sensors and MEMS
(CISM), National University of Singapore, Singapore
117608, Singapore
ACS Photonics
pubs.acs.org/journal/apchd5
Article
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381
ACS Photonics 2022, 9, 2367−2377
2375


Zhihao Ren −Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, National University of Singapore, Singapore
117583, Singapore; Center for Intelligent Sensors and MEMS
(CISM), National University of Singapore, Singapore
117608, Singapore
Bowei Dong −Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, National University of Singapore, Singapore
117583, Singapore; Center for Intelligent Sensors and MEMS
(CISM), National University of Singapore, Singapore
117608, Singapore
Ji Xia −Department of Mechanical Engineering, National
University of Singapore, Singapore 117575, Singapore
Haoyang Sun −Department of Mechanical Engineering,
National University of Singapore, Singapore 117575,
Singapore
Complete contact information is available at:
https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381
Funding
We acknowledge Singapore Ministry of Education (MOE2019-
T2-2-104) for financial support.
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
■REFERENCES
(1) Manley, M. Near-infrared spectroscopy and hyperspectral
imaging: non-destructive analysis of biological materials. Chem. Soc.
Rev. 2014, 43, 8200−8214.
(2) Yang, Z.; Albrow-Owen, T.; Cai, W.; Hasan, T. Miniaturization
of optical spectrometers. Science 2021, 371, No. eabe0722.
(3) Wolffenbuttel, R. F. MEMS-based optical mini-and micro-
spectrometers for the visible and infrared spectral range. J. Micromech.
Microeng. 2005, 15, S145.
(4) Schuler, L. P.; Milne, J. S.; Dell, J. M.; Faraone, L. MEMS-based
microspectrometer technologies for NIR and MIR wavelengths. J.
Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 2009, 42, 133001.
(5) Malinen, J.; Rissanen, A.; Saari, H.; Karioja, P.; Karppinen, M.;
Aalto, T.; Tukkiniemi, K. Advances in Miniature Spectrometer and
Sensor Development; Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies
VII, International Society for Optics and Photonics, 2014; p 91010C.
(6) Cadusch, J. J.; Meng, J.; Craig, B. J.; Shrestha, V. R.; Crozier, K.
B. Visible to long-wave infrared chip-scale spectrometers based on
photodetectors with tailored responsivities and multispectral filters.
Nanophotonics 2020, 9, 3197−3208.
(7) Meng, J.; Cadusch, J. J.; Crozier, K. B. Detector-only
spectrometer based on structurally colored silicon nanowires and a
reconstruction algorithm. Nano Lett. 2019, 20, 320−328.
(8) Ryckeboer, E.; Nie, X.; Dhakal, A.; Martens, D.; Bienstman, P.;
Roelkens, G.; Baets, R. Spectroscopic sensing and applications in
Silicon Photonics. 2017 IEEE 14th International Conference on Group
IV Photonics (GFP); Ieee, 2017; pp 81−82.
(9) Stojanović, V.; Ram, R. J.; Popović, M.; Lin, S.; Moazeni, S.;
Wade, M.; Sun, C.; Alloatti, L.; Atabaki, A.; Pavanello, F.; Mehta, N.;
Bhargava, P. Monolithic silicon-photonic platforms in state-of-the-art
CMOS SOI processes. Opt Express 2018, 26, 13106−13121.
(10) He, J.-J.; Lamontagne, B.; Delage, A.; Erickson, L.; Davies, M.;
Koteles, E. S. Monolithic integrated wavelength demultiplexer based
on a waveguide Rowland circle grating in InGaAsP/lnP. J. Lightwave
Technol. 1998, 16, 631−638.
(11) Sander, D.; Müller, J. Selffocussing phase transmission grating
for an integrated optical microspectrometer. Sens. Actuators, A 2001,
88, 1−9.
(12) Cheben, P.; Schmid, J. H.; Delâge, A.; Densmore, A.; Janz, S.;
Lamontagne, B.; Lapointe, J.; Post, E.; Waldron, P.; Xu, D.-X. A high-
resolution silicon-on-insulator arrayed waveguide grating micro-
spectrometer with sub-micrometer aperture waveguides. Opt Express
2007, 15, 2299−2306.
(13) Calafiore, G.; Koshelev, A.; Dhuey, S.; Goltsov, A.; Sasorov, P.;
Babin, S.; Yankov, V.; Cabrini, S.; Peroz, C. Holographic planar
lightwave circuit for on-chip spectroscopy. Light Sci. Appl. 2014, 3,
No. e203.
(14) Gao, B.; Shi, Z.; Boyd, R. W. Design of flat-band superprism
structures for on-chip spectroscopy. Opt. Express 2015, 23, 6491−
6496.
(15) Nitkowski, A.; Chen, L.; Lipson, M. Cavity-enhanced on-chip
absorption spectroscopy using microring resonators. Opt Express
2008, 16, 11930−11936.
(16) Zheng, S.; Cai, H.; Song, J.; Zou, J.; Liu, P. Y.; Lin, Z.; Kwong,
D.-L.; Liu, A.-Q. A Single-Chip Integrated Spectrometer via Tunable
Microring Resonator Array. IEEE Photonics J. 2019, 11, 1−9.
(17) Kita, D. M.; Miranda, B.; Favela, D.; Bono, D.; Michon, J.; Lin,
H.; Gu, T.; Hu, J. High-performance and scalable on-chip digital
Fourier transform spectroscopy. Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 4405.
(18) Li, L.; Peng, C.; Qi, Y.; Zhou, G.; Qiao, Q.; Chau, F. S.; Zhou,
G. Design of an on-chip Fourier transform spectrometer using
waveguide directional couplers and NEMS. Opt. Express 2018, 26,
30362−30370.
(19) Souza, M. C. M. M.; Grieco, A.; Frateschi, N. C.; Fainman, Y.
Fourier transform spectrometer on silicon with thermo-optic non-
linearity and dispersion correction. Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 665.
(20) Pohl, D.; Reig Escalé, M.; Madi, M.; Kaufmann, F.; Brotzer, P.;
Sergeyev, A.; Guldimann, B.; Giaccari, P.; Alberti, E.; Meier, U.;
Grange, R. An integrated broadband spectrometer on thin-film
lithium niobate. Nat. Photonics 2019, 14, 24−29.
(21) Zheng, S. N.; Zou, J.; Cai, H.; Song, J. F.; Chin, L. K.; Liu, P.
Y.; Lin, Z. P.; Kwong, D. L.; Liu, A. Q. Microring resonator-assisted
Fourier transform spectrometer with enhanced resolution and large
bandwidth in single chip solution. Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 2349.
(22) Redding, B.; Liew, S. F.; Bromberg, Y.; Sarma, R.; Cao, H.
Evanescently coupled multimode spiral spectrometer. Optica 2016, 3,
956−962.
(23) Redding, B.; Liew, S. F.; Sarma, R.; Cao, H. Compact
spectrometer based on a disordered photonic chip. Nat. Photonics
2013, 7, 746−751.
(24) Nedeljkovic, M.; Velasco, A. V.; Khokhar, A. Z.; Delâge, A.;
Cheben, P.; Mashanovich, G. Z. Mid-infrared silicon-on-insulator
Fourier-transform spectrometer chip. IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett.
2015, 28, 528−531.
(25) Liu, Q.; Ramirez, J. M.; Vakarin, V.; Le Roux, X.; Alonso-
Ramos, C.; Frigerio, J.; Ballabio, A.; Talamas Simola, E.; Bouville, D.;
Vivien, L.; Isella, G.; Marris-Morini, D. Integrated broadband dual-
polarization Ge-rich SiGe mid-infrared Fourier-transform spectrom-
eter. Opt. Lett. 2018, 43, 5021−5024.
(26) Heidari, E.; Xu, X.; Chung, C.-J.; Chen, R. T. On-chip Fourier
transform spectrometer on silicon-on-sapphire. Opt. Lett. 2019, 44,
2883.
(27) Montesinos-Ballester, M.; Liu, Q.; Vakarin, V.; Ramirez, J. M.;
Alonso-Ramos, C.; Roux, X. L.; Frigerio, J.; Ballabio, A.; Talamas, E.;
Vivien, L.; Isella, G.; Marris-Morini, D. On-chip Fourier-transform
spectrometer based on spatial heterodyning tuned by thermo-optic
effect. Sci. Rep. 2019, 9, 14633.
(28) Erfan, M.; Sabry, Y. M.; Sakr, M.; Mortada, B.; Medhat, M.;
Khalil, D. On-chip micro−electro−mechanical system Fourier
transform infrared (MEMS FT-IR) spectrometer-based gas sensing.
Appl. Spectrosc. 2016, 70, 897−904.
(29) Hu, T.; Dong, B.; Luo, X.; Liow, T.-Y.; Song, J.; Lee, C.; Lo, G.-
Q. Silicon photonic platforms for mid-infrared applications [Invited].
Photon. Res. 2017, 5, 417.
(30) Lin, H.; Luo, Z.; Gu, T.; Kimerling, L. C.; Wada, K.; Agarwal,
A.; Hu, J. Mid-infrared integrated photonics on silicon: a perspective.
Nanophotonics 2017, 7, 393−420.
(31) Soref, R. Mid-infrared photonics in silicon and germanium. Nat.
Photonics 2010, 4, 495−497.
ACS Photonics
pubs.acs.org/journal/apchd5
Article
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381
ACS Photonics 2022, 9, 2367−2377
2376


(32) Gu, T.; Hu, J. Reconfigurable Mid-infrared Photonics. 2021
IEEE Photonics Society Summer Topicals Meeting Series (SUM); IEEE,
2021; pp 1−2.
(33) Qiao, Q.; Yazici, M. S.; Dong, B.; Liu, X.; Lee, C.; Zhou, G.
Multifunctional mid-infrared photonic switch using a MEMS-based
tunable waveguide coupler. Opt. Lett. 2020, 45, 5620−5623.
(34) Nedeljkovic, M.; Soref, R.; Mashanovich, G. Z. Free-Carrier
Electrorefraction and Electroabsorption Modulation Predictions for
Silicon Over the 1−14-$\mu\hbox {m} $ Infrared Wavelength Range.
IEEE Photonics J. 2011, 3, 1171−1180.
(35) Nedeljkovic, M.; Stankovic, S.; Mitchell, C. J.; Khokhar, A. Z.;
Reynolds, S. A.; Thomson, D. J.; Gardes, F. Y.; Littlejohns, C. G.;
Reed, G. T.; Mashanovich, G. Z. Mid-infrared thermo-optic
modulators in SoI. IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett. 2014, 26, 1352−1355.
(36) Quack, N.; Sattari, H.; Takabayashi, A. Y.; Zhang, Y.; Verheyen,
P.; Bogaerts, W.; Edinger, P.; Errando-Herranz, C.; Gylfason, K. B.
MEMS-enabled silicon photonic integrated devices and circuits. IEEE
J. Quantum Electron. 2020, 56, 1−10.
(37) Yazici, M. S.; Dong, B.; Hasan, D.; Sun, F.; Lee, C. Integration
of MEMS IR detectors with MIR waveguides for sensing applications.
Opt Express 2020, 28, 11524−11537.
(38) Syms, R. R. A.; Cozens, J. R. Optical Guided Waves and Devices;
McGraw-Hill, 1992.
(39) Han, S.; Seok, T. J.; Quack, N.; Yoo, B.-W.; Wu, M. C. Large-
scale silicon photonic switches with movable directional couplers.
Optica 2015, 2, 370−375.
(40) Pedregosa, F.; Varoquaux, G.; Gramfort, A.; Michel, V.;
Thirion, B.; Grisel, O.; Blondel, M.; Prettenhofer, P.; Weiss, R.;
Dubourg, V. Scikit-learn: Machine learning in Python. J. Mach. Learn.
Res. 2011, 12, 2825−2830.
(41) Valiunas, J. K.; Stewart, G.; Das, G. Detection of Nitrous Oxide
(N 2 O) at Sub-ppmv using intracavity absorption spectroscopy. IEEE
Photon. Technol. Lett. 2016, 28, 359−362.
ACS Photonics
pubs.acs.org/journal/apchd5
Article
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.2c00381
ACS Photonics 2022, 9, 2367−2377
2377
